# Credit-Card-Fraud-Detection
The increase in the usage of the credit card by the people, the transactions done by credit card increases dramatically in the world. With this drastic increase in the usage of credit cards, the number of fraudulent also increases enormously &amp; it is very difficult to identify the difference between a fraudulent transaction and normal transaction. American Express-issued credit card to 53.7 Million users, however, recorded Rs. 73380 fraud in a year on average. Credit card fraudulent causes serious losses to the individual and the organization. The credit card issuing companies offer credit card fraud detection applications to the users and individuals for their safety. This paper focuses on the different algorithms used for credit card fraud detection and find the optimal algorithm for classification of credit card fraud detection. It uses Logistic Regression, Linear Discriminant Analysis, K-Nearest Neighbors, Support Vector Machine, eXtreme Gradient Boosting, Random Forest and computes the accuracy, AUC-ROC values for all the classifiers.

Machine learning and artificial intelligence are the most common tools used in the new generation for finding out fraudulent, diagnosis, and optimal solution for every problem. The present generation uses solutions that work on the methodologies of using algorithms and mathematical computations of libraries by working on datasets, which is very difficult for humans to work on them. Machine learning techniques mainly comprises of two main categories: supervised learning and unsupervised learning. Credit card fraud detection can be done in both ways and can only be decided by proper study of datasets. Supervised learning requires earlier categorization to abnormalities whereas the Unsupervised learning technique did not require any categorization. The detection of fraud in credit card is a vast concept of study which is included in the main study of financial frauds and it is a topic of attraction by increasing attention from the scientific community and the rising costs that they generate for the system, reaching billions of dollars and by fraudulent in credit card it yearly losses a percentage loss of revenues equal to the 1.4% of online payments.
